So the first Thing i wanted to start working on was some basic movement of the TurtleBot. After connecting to the TurtleBot like in [Chapter0, Step5](linktosection), I followed ROS's tutorial (which is more of a "run this command, and figure it out" tutorial) on how a user can control the TurtleBot. The first thing that I tried was to use the [keyboardTeleop](http://wiki.ros.org/turtlebot_teleop/Tutorials/indigo/Keyboard%20Teleop) tutorial. Its essentually just using a one line command, and pressing buttons on your keyboard to get it to move around. Super easy to do, and easy enough to use. 

Here's how to use your keyboard to control the TurtleBot:
1. Open two terminal windows and SSH into the TurtleBot with both windows using `ssh -Y <laptopid>@<laptopIP>`
   - In the frst terminal window, get the turtlebot connected to the latop with `roslaunch turtlebot_bringup minimal.launch --screen'
   - In the second terminal window, launch the keyboard controller program using `roslaunch turtlebot_teleop keyboard_teleop.launch --screen'
2. After they are both loaded, in the second you will see a diagram pop up about how to control your TurtleBot.

I did, however, find it a little odd to use (maybe because for 70% of my life I've played video games on a controller). Having 6 keys for directional inputs, and a few more keys to control speed, just felt a little klunky. So my next plan of action will be to use a joy stick (ie. controller) to control it. There's only one issue however, TurtleBot explicitly only works with a PS3 controller, ([this is ROS's tutorial for it](http://wiki.ros.org/turtlebot_teleop/Tutorials/indigo/Joystick%20Teleop) and I have a Nintendo Switch controller. However, this is a good because then I'll be able to outline what I did, so hopefully, you should be able to use any controller (with a joystick) to control the TurtleBot.

Here's how I did it:
1. I installed a software called qjoypad, which allows you to remap joystick movements into keyboard inputs. It's not the perfect solution (which would be to alter joystick teleop file, but I wasn't too concerned, since I wasnt using this for anything more than playing around).
  - You can install qjoypad by typing `sudo apt install joypad` in a terminal window.
  - Note: When you launch qjoypad, it will be a bit weird. In order to get the GUI to remap your joysticks, you'll want ot launch it with `qjoypad --notray`, then click on the controller icon in the middle of your screen.
2. Your free to make your own choice for which joystick movements are mapped to which keys. Do whatever feels comfortable.
3. Once your done, safe your config in qjoypad. Then relaunch the keyboardteleop program (using the commands listeed above). Now you can use either your keyboard or your connected controller to control your TurtleBot.
